 Kemar Roach and Tino Best vindicated the decision to put New Zealand in at Sabina Park, striking early and then breaking the resistance to give West Indies the upper hand. Roach claimed 4 for 70 and Best 2 for 40 on a pitch they said got harder to bowl on as the day progressed.

"I would rate today's effort as a good performance. It was not an easy pitch to bowl on - it offered some moisture in the early stages, but then it flattened out and made batting quite easy," Roach said after play, with New Zealand all out for 260. "I put in the work, reaped some reward and I'm pleased with four wickets. They batted pretty well early on and we had to change our plans and come back at them in the final session."

Roach made the initial breakthrough, having BJ Watling caught at slip, and his new-ball partner Best struck shortly after - making Brendon McCullum edge behind. New Zealand were 11 for 2.

"His pace was 'up' and he troubled the batsmen," Roach said of Best. "I would say he was the pick of the bowlers for us. The role he played was fantastic out there today. It was pretty hot as well and he maintained his energy levels. That's how Tino plays ... wholehearted every day."

New Zealand recovered from losing two early wickets through a century stand between Ross Taylor and Martin Guptill, but Best returned to break that partnership. He had Taylor caught behind for 60, cutting a promising innings short, and New Zealand did not have any substantial stands after that.

"I told myself to stay focussed and try to get the ball in the right areas," Best said. "I was happy when I got McCullum early as that gave us a good start after we won the toss and put them in. After that it got harder, but I still kept my pace up and kept running in. In the end I was pleased with my effort.

"Kemar was excellent and just keeps getting better as a bowler for us. I'm pleased for him. In our team we enjoy each other's success and I was happy to support him today. To get 10 wickets on the first day is good; anyone would take that. We will look to build on the second day and push forward." 
