 "Nothing difficult right now as I had two years of runs put down," said Marlon Samuels after his Man-of-the-Match winning performance in the second Test in his country Jamaica, which also sealed a 2-0 series win for West Indies. Samuels was alluding to his two-year absence from cricket as a result of a ban for alleged links to an Indian bookmaker.

Samuels, on the eve of the 50th anniversary of Jamaica's independence, dedicated the victory, during which he scored 123 and 52, to his country. "Most definitely, this is for Jamaica, the die-hard fans."

West Indies secured their first series win against a team other than Bangladesh or Zimbabwe in the last three years. They conceded a 51-run lead in the first innings, when Samuels took them closer to the New Zealand score with a century, but bowled out their opponents for 154 in the second and completed a chase of 206 on the fourth day. "It's a feeling we are getting used to, and it feels quite good," West Indies captain Darren Sammy said. "The way Marlon held the innings together in both innings, that spell from Narsingh [Deonarine, who picked up four wickets in the second innings] yesterday, the performances are coming from different players at different times, that's the hallmark of a good team.

"We have bowled them out every time we have played them this series, the efforts of Tino [Best, who took two wickets in the first hour of play] yesterday morning set the tone for us. Last year or two has been tough for us, we are going to celebrate this day, but it is about continuous hard work."

Kemar Roach was named the Man of the Series for his 12 wickets at 18.25. He picked up seven wickets in the first Test, five in the second and made an attacking 41 in West Indies' chase in Jamaica as nightwatchman. "Of course as a fast bowler I'd like faster, bouncier wickets," he said. Roach, despite his success, has had problems with the no-ball. "I have a couple of weeks off, will spend it with the coach (working on the no-ball problems)." 
