 Kemar Roach has credited the team gameplan and the bowlers' resolution on a batting pitch for West Indies bowling out New Zealand for a gettable target to win the first Test on Sunday. Roach took 5 for 60 to help West Indies win their first Test since October 2011.

"The plan today was to bowl on one side of the wicket and look to build pressure," Roach said after the match. "We believed that would lead to the wickets. They didn't score many runs in the first session [but] we took our opportunities after lunch. It was a good team plan and it worked out very well today for us."

Roach dismissed New Zealand captain Ross Taylor and Kane Williamson in successive overs in the morning session, sparking New Zealand's collapse. Seven wickets fell for 73 runs and New Zealand were eventually dismissed for 272, ending their chances of saving the Test.

"The pitch was good for batting throughout the match but we were banking on Sunny (Sunil Narine) to get the bulk of the wickets today and win the match for us. He bowled extremely well in the match and was great in both innings, but today was my day and I seized the moment."

Taylor was the first to go, trapped lbw by a ball that angled in, and Williamson was bowled for a duck. Roach later dismissed Neil Wagner and Kruger van Wyk to end with match figures of 7 for 115, the second best in his career. In April, he had taken 10 for 146 against Australia in Trinidad, a track he said was better to bowl on than North Sound.

"It was tough work in Trinidad, but here the pitch was just flat and quite good for the batsmen. The key was to get it straight and keep it straight. As the ball got older and softer I noticed the batsmen found it harder to score so I just stayed on top of off stump."

Roach is the fourth-highest Test wicket-taker this year, with 34 wickets at 22.47, and ranks tenth in the ICC Test rankings. Roach said he was pleased his efforts here bore fruit.

"It was hard work out there, very hard work, but I am thrilled I put my hand up for the team and delivered a good victory."

The second Test begins in Kingston on August 2. 
