 Tim Southee, the New Zealand fast bowler, has said his team cannot be counted out of the Jamaica Test just yet. Following a dramatic collapse on day three, in which New Zealand slipped from 56 for 2 to 154 all out, West Indies were left chasing a target of 206. New Zealand did nip out four wickets by stumps but, by then, the hosts needed only 71 more with six wickets in hand to sweep the series 2-0.

"Look at the last couple of mornings, [there have been] been wickets early; if we can grab [Shivnarine] Chanderpaul early, and a couple of others, we'll be right back into it," Southee said. "If we do manage to pull it off, it'll be a very memorable win."

After two early losses in the chase, West Indies consolidated through a partnership of 74 between Assad Fudadin and Marlon Samuels. First-innings centurion Samuels had followed up with another half-century, but the pair was dismissed in the final session. Getting Samuels gave New Zealand a boost, Southee said. "Samuels is one of the best batsmen in the series, especially in this game anyway. To get Marlon, when he's batting well and [after he] got a decent start, it was a great time to pick one up."

New Zealand's meek collapse, Southee admitted, was a letdown. "Obviously, there [aren't as] many runs as we'd like to play with. The batsmen knew that they'd sort of let that one slip.

"West Indies, giving them credit, they came out and bowled extremely well in the morning and a few shots there, that our batters played, weren't ideal."

New Zealand had looked to be ahead in the match, after bowling West Indies out for 209 in their first innings to secure a 51-run lead, that too without two of their most experience bowlers, Daniel Vettori and Chris Martin. Their four-pronged pace attack - Southee, Neil Wagner, Trent Boult and Doug Bracewell - clicked, sharing all ten wickets among them and again, on the third day, each of the four picked up a wicket apiece.

Southee said it felt good working in tandem with the other bowlers. "You'd always like to get more wickets [but] if you're not getting the wickets, somebody else's going to get them. With the four bowlers there, I think we've all bowled pretty well at times and chipped in.

"It's just [about] doing your job and if it gets you a wicket at the other end, then you are just as happy as you are if you get a wicket." 
