Break of the day
The last scheduled drinks break of the day was advanced by seven minutes to allow the fans in the ground to watch the Women's 100m final at the London Olympics, with two Jamaicans, Veronica Campbell Brown and Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce expected to medal. The players and the officials took a comfortable position on the side of the pitch facing the big screen, showing the final. As the runners got off the blocks, a huge roar went around the ground, cheering the locals through. As Fraser-Pryce crossed the finishing line first, jubilant Jamaicans in the stands and the dressing room were seen jumping and hollering. Jamaica finished 1 and 3 in the race.

Wasted reviews of the day
Through this Test series, Darren Sammy's relationship with the DRS challenges has been that of a compulsive gambler and his money - easily parted. He has shown the quick trigger and the tendency to be easily convinced by his bowler. Within the space of seven overs of the morning session, West Indies burned both their challenges. The first was an lbw appeal off Tino Best where the ball seemed to be comfortably missing the leg stump. The second was more egregious, when Narsingh Deonarine hit Kane Williamson on the pads, replay showing the ball missing the stumps by a foot. All of Sammy's six challenges in this series have been struck down. About time he realises DRS isn't necessarily a wicket-taking tool, but one to rectify bad umpiring mistakes.

Celebration of the day - I
Tino Best was already pumped - it doesn't take much, really - having taken the wicket of Neil Wagner with a short ball from around the wicket. He welcomed Ross Taylor to the wicket with a short delivery, which he fielded on his follow-through and threatened to throw back at the stumps. Add to it a few words and a persistent glare. Next delivery, he had Taylor playing a shot away from the body to a shortish delivery, edging it to Denesh Ramdin. And Best took off. He wouldn't stop till he got to the sponsor sign near the boundary, banging his chest and screaming, well within Taylor's earshot. His team-mates eventually caught up to him and more celebrations followed.

Celebration of the day - II
As the players walked back to the pavilion for lunch, the PA system started playing the Jamaica National Anthem, and the crowd came to a stand still. In celebration of Jamaica's 50th Independence Day, all current and former first-class cricketers from Jamaica were felicitated. Some of them made their entry from the George Headley stand and walked along the boundary, waving to the crowd, all the way around Sabina Park.

Shot of the day
Marlon Samuels walked in with West Indies dangling at 20 for 2 but the shots he unfurled clearly indicated that he was in a different zone as a batsman than anybody else in this Test. He had just dismissed a wide ball from Trent Boult in the ninth over through cover point. The bowler adjusted the width and decided to bowl closer to the stumps. Samuels made his adjustment too, moving his feet only slightly to get closer to the line and executed a cover drive so sweet, loaded with impeccable timing, the deep point fielder didn't even bother to move. He held the pose and admired his shot as the ball raced to the boundary.

Drop of the day
Doug Bracewell ran in to bowl the last over before tea. After going for 12 runs in his first over, Bracewell had come back well, bowling tight and even swinging the ball away from the right-hander. If New Zealand were to have any chance, they needed to get Samuels. Bracewell induced an outside edge from Samuels, but BJ Watling spilled a straightforward chance at gully. Following their insipid batting performance, the drop didn't do much to their self belief.

Misfield of the day
In the 11th over, Samuels drove Neil Wagner through point and looked to pick up a couple of runs. Bracewell ran in from the third man boundary, but overran the ball and let it go through. What should have been a tight two, went for four. The New Zealanders in the press box went, "yep, that pretty much sums it up."
