New Zealand won their first Test in 11 attempts - the last time they won a Test was against Sri Lanka at the P Sara Oval in Colombo in 2012. New Zealand's last win at home came against Zimbabwe in Napier in January 2012.
This was West Indies' 23rd innings-defeat in Tests and the second against New Zealand. The Basin Reserve, Wellington, has not been a favourable venue for West Indies as both their innings-defeats against New Zealand have come at this venue. West Indies had lost here earlier in 1999 by a margin of an innings and 105 runs. Also, including this Test, West Indies have lost three consecutive Tests at this venue and four of their ten losses to New Zealand in Tests have come at this venue. This was also West Indies' third innings-defeat in four Tests and the fourth consecutive Test in which they were asked to follow on.
Trent Boult and Tim Southee ran through West Indies' tail in their first innings, dismissing their last-four batsman for a duck. This was only the third time in Tests that all the final four batsmen were dismissed for a duck in an innings. The last time this happened was in the Ashes in 2005 sixth time that seven or more of West Indies' batsmen were out for a duck in a Test. Before this, in 2001, there were two such instances in consecutive Tests against Sri Lanka at the SSC, Colombo and in Kandy.
West Indies were bowled out in both their innings in just 104.4 overs in this match. This is the lowest number of overs they have batted against New Zealand in a losing cause. Click here for a list of Tests when West Indies have survived for fewer overs than in this Test.
Trent Boult's 6 for 40 in West Indies' first innings in this Test are his best bowling figures and his third five-wicket haul in Tests. His figures of 10 for 80 in the match are also his best in Tests and the first time he has taken ten wickets in a Test. Boult is only the second left-arm fast bowler after Gary Troup to take a ten-wicket haul in Tests for New Zealand. Troup took 10 for 166 against the same opposition in 1980.
Boult's ten-wicket haul in the match was only the sixth at this venue by a fast bowler and the first since Shoaib Akhtar took 11 for 78 against the hosts in 2003. Courtney Walsh's 13 for 55 against the hosts in 1995 are the best bowling figures at this venue by a fast bowler. This was also the first ten-wicket haul by a New Zealand fast bowler at this venue since Richard Hadlee took 10 for 100 against England in 1978. This was the 20th ten-wicket haul from a New Zealand fast bowler in Tests and the first one to come playing at home in nearly ten years, since Chris Martin took 11 for 180 against South Africa in Auckland in 2004.
West Indies lost all their 20 wickets in this Test to fast bowlers - only the eighth time this has happened to them in Tests. Two of these instances have come against New Zealand in New Zealand. The last time this happened for them was against South Africa in Centurion in 2004. There have been 11 instances of New Zealand taking all the 20 of their opposition's wickets through their fast bowlers.