The Big Picture
It was always suspected that New Zealand would be too good against West Indies in home conditions. Then came the Dunedin fightback. Perhaps the visitors could offer a sterner challenge. Then came Wellington. No they couldn't, at least over those three days.

There is nothing to be ashamed about in losing against swing, seam and a hint of bounce, but West Indies didn't look up for the fight on the third day at the Basin save for the second-innings opening stand. That is what has frustrated Ottis Gibson the most. He wants the fight back. If you then lose to a better team, fair enough.

New Zealand are the better team in these conditions (the return series in the Caribbean next year may be different) but that gives them the added pressure of not slipping up in Hamilton. There was such a vast margin between the teams last week it's barely possible to see it happening, but it only takes one batting collapse even though they are becoming rare at home for New Zealand.

Against England they went into the final Test at 0-0 and dominated the match from start to finish only to be denied at the end. This time, they have a lead they are desperate not to surrender, but it is not Brendon McCullum's way to play defensive cricket - this is also a West Indies team on the back foot and ripe for the taking.
Watch out for
The only New Zealand batsman to make hundreds in three consecutive Tests is Mark Burgess - spread over nearly three years from 1969 to 1972 against three teams; Pakistan, England and West Indies. Given the form Ross Taylor has shown in this series, and the doses of fortune that have gone his way, don't bet against him achieving that feat. If Taylor can score 38 runs in this Test he will become only the third New Zealand batsman, after Andrew Jones and Glenn Turner, to make 400 runs in a three-Test series.

With Shane Shillingford suspended from bowling, Sunil Narine will make his return to the Test team. A record of 15 wickets in five matches at 48.06 does not shout out matchwinner, but at least he'll bring his tricky set of deliveries. In one-dayers, the skid he generates is a significant weapon and on a grassy surface that could be something in his favour. However, he has not bowled in a first-class match (of which he has still only played 12) since March this year when he took 10 wickets in the match against Guyana.