The Big Picture
Dunedin ended as one of those Tests that would take some explaining if one day we find life on another planet: five days of sweat and toil, then it rains and everyone troops off with a draw. Yet it was also a terrific example of what makes Test cricket so brilliant. There were two double centuries, some artful swing bowling, some skillful spin, some terrific catches and some drops, plus just a little bit of controversy.

After two-and-a-half days of being comprehensively outplayed there was a fear that, like in India, West Indies would not provide much of an opposition. Now they have shaken off the jetlag, chipped off the rust and - apart from the odd cold - started to get used to New Zealand weather. While New Zealand skulked out of Dunedin frustrated and bemoaning their luck, West Indies had a spring in their step not only because the rain saved them but also because they helped save themselves.

Now, though, they need to play as they did for the second half of that Test all over again - and from the start. Consistency is what coach Ottis Gibson and captain Darren Sammy are striving for, to make performances of Darren Bravo's ilk more the norm than the surprise.

They remain second-favourites in this series, largely due to the problems in their pace-bowling attack. The quicks are likely to get a pitch to help them in Wellington, but it remains to be seen whether Tino Best, Shannon Gabriel and maybe Sheldon Cottrell have the patience and skill to exploit them. Sammy, seemingly recovering well from his injury, could be the man best suited.

In the corresponding Test against England in March, following another long spell in the field in Dunedin, New Zealand were slow starters (it is the last time England reached 400 in a Test). There may be a little bit of neither the batsmen or the bowlers really wanting first use of the pitch, one lot because it could move all over the place and the second because of their workload. Some spicy pitches, though, are just what Test cricket needs.
Watch out for
Trent Boult bowled some superbly skillful spells in Dunedin - he also bowled a lot of overs. Both in Dunedin and early in the year Auckland his efforts with the ball have deserved more than a draw. He wants a chance to rekindle the team song. "The boys are always eager to sing that and a handful of guys haven't actually sung that song yet." Boult has shown the ability to swing the ball when others struggle; in helpful conditions he could be lethal.

Darren Sammy came into the first Test under significant pressure after a poor series in India and he responded impressively with bat and ball. Before his injury he was the most consistent West Indies seamer and his 80 in the second innings was a vital part of saving the Test. On flat pitches he is not a third-seamer in Test cricket, but if the Wellington surface offers some help for those who find a consistent line and length he may just be the man.