New Zealand ended their previous home season with the crushing disappointment of being denied a series victory over England by one wicket as Matt Prior and Monty Panesar played out the final few, fraught moments in Auckland. Since then it has been a trying time for them, but they begin their new season with a series they should be confident of winning ahead of the sterner challenge of India's visit.

If West Indies had been at full strength - with the likes of Chris Gayle and Kemar Roach available - the teams would have been almost level-pegging at the start, but home advantage and a stronger seam attack make New Zealand the early favourites. However, their Test cricket is far from consistent enough to make that anything more than a speculative judgement.

West Indies barely competed in India and the shoe-horned in tour has meant slap-dash preparation for this series, limited to a mix-and-match warm-up game where New Zealand domestic players appeared in the same side as West Indians and a couple of days' training in Dunedin. If it was a Test series decided on how many layers were being worn, West Indies would be winning.


Tim Southee and Trent Boult will aim to replicate the success they had against England	
If they start badly in the first Test - and their warm-up period makes that a distinct possibility - the series could unravel for them, but at least it is three Test matches rather than the token two so often see around the world nowadays.

New Zealand showed many positive signs when England visited in March, top of the list being the performances of Tim Southee, Trent Boult and Neil Wagner who comprehensively outbowled the visiting seamers. Their spin bowling and top-order batting remain unsteady, though. Daniel Vettori and Jesse Ryder may return later in the season, but this series came too soon.

Having become unnerved by the brevity of some first-class matches at University Oval, the Test surfaces here have verged on the flat in recent encounters. England managed to bat out two days to save the Test in March. This time there is a suggestion of more life in the pitch with a healthy covering of grass being left on, perhaps because of West Indies' spin bowling being a strength. West Indies will be pleased that the mercury is due to rise into the mid-20s with a very good forecast for the first four days of the match.

Stats and trivia
Shivnarine Chanderpaul, who needs 37 runs to reach 11,000, has 150 Test caps, the rest of West Indies' squad has 260 between them.
Chanderpaul will be one of three survivors from the 2008 Test between these sides at University Oval, along with Ross Taylor and Brendon McCullum
Ish Sodhi, the New Zealand legspinner, has never bowled a ball at University Oval
Quotes
"We are playing good cricket, we just need to start putting some results together. We know we need to start getting those wins and that starts here."
Brendon McCullum is aware that talking a good game can only last so long

"Today's lovely, it's back like the Caribbean now so hopefully the weather can be like this for the five days."
Denesh Ramdin was pleased to feel the weather warm up in Dune
