This was Ross Taylor's third hundred in three Tests against West Indies. He became only the second New Zealand batsman after Mark Burgess to score hundreds in three consecutive Tests. Burgess's hundreds in three consecutive Tests were spread over almost three and half years, from 1969 to 1972. Click here for a list of batsmen who made centuries in three or more consecutive Tests.
Taylor has become only the second New Zealand batsman after Andrew Jones to make three hundreds in a Test series. Jones scored three centuries and a fifty in six innings against Sri Lanka in 1990-91.
Taylor's 493 runs in this series are the second-highest by a New Zealand batsman in a home series and the joint sixth-highest in any series. Glenn Turner's 672 runs in the West Indies in 1971-72 are the most by a New Zealand batsman in a Test series.
Taylor has scored 864 runs at 72.00 from ten Tests this year. He's just seven runs behind John Reid's 871 runs in 1965 - the most runs scored by any New Zealand batsman in a calendar year. Reid's tally though took three Tests and eight innings more than Taylor has taken to score his runs. Among the five instances of New Zealand batsmen scoring 800 or more in a calendar year, three have come from Taylor. He's also the fourth-highest run-scorer in Tests this year.
West Indies' top four batsmen collectively scored only 16 runs in their second innings - the ninth-lowest they have ever scored in a Test innings. The last time their top four scored 16 or fewer in an innings was in 2000, when they had three such instances.
The 36 wickets that New Zealand's left-arm fast bowlers took in this series was the biggest haul by such bowlers in a series of three or fewer Tests, beating the 30 wickets taken by India's left-arm seamers against Zimbabwe in a two-Test series in 2005, and Sri Lanka's against West Indies in 2001-02. New Zealand's new-ball bowlers have taken 38 wickets from the three Tests in this series. This is their best ever in Tests, beating the 37 wickets they took against the same opposition in 1979-80.
BJ Watling added three more catches to the five he took in West Indies' first innings. This was only the fourth instance of a New Zealand wicketkeeper taking eight or more catches in a Test. The five catches he took in the first innings was the 15th instance of a New Zealand wicketkeeper collecting five or more dismissals in an innings. Adam Parore and Brendon McCullum have each collected five or more dismissals four times in an innings.
Sunil Narine's career-best figures of 6 for 91 in New Zealand's first innings were the second-best figures by a spinner in Tests in Hamilton and only the third time a spinner has taken a five-wicket haul at this venue. Harbhajan Singh's 6 for 63 in 2009 are the best bowing figures by a spinner at this venue.
This year has been the best for West Indies spinners in terms of the number of five-wicket hauls they have taken in Tests. Narine's five-wicket haul is their sixth - in addition to the five taken by Shane Shillingford - in 2013, their highest ever in a year, beating the five they took back in 1950. The 60 wickets that West Indies spinners have taken this year are also the most they have taken in any calendar year. Their previous best in a year was 59 wickets, which they have taken on three separate occasions, the latest being last year.
Tim Southee became the 12th New Zealand bowler and tenth fast bowler from the country to take 100 Test wickets when he dismissed Veerasammy Permaul in the second innings. Southee has taken 101 wickets at 31.44 from 29 Tests.
West Indies' last three batsmen were all dismissed for ducks in their second innings. This is the first such instance for them since 2001 against Sri Lanka, and their fifth such instance in Tests.
Shivnarine Chanderpaul made his 29th hundred in Tests, in West Indies' first innings. Among West Indies batsmen only Brian Lara, with 34, has more hundreds in Tests. Only 11 other Test batsmen have scored more centuries than him.